## HEALTH EQUITY ASSESSMENT TOOLKIT (HEAT AND HEAT PLUS)
<hr>

1. [Description](#description)
2. [Copyright](#copyright)
3. [Suggested citation](#suggested-citation)
4. [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)
5. [Terms of use and software license agreement](#terms-of-use-and-software-license-agreement)


### 1. DESCRIPTION
<hr>

#### SOFTWARE
The WHO **Health Equity Assessment Toolkit** is a software application that 
facilitates the assessment of health inequalities in countries. Health 
inequality data are visualized in a variety of interactive graphs, maps and 
tables, making it easy to analyze and interpret results. Visualizations can be 
exported and used to communicate findings for evidence-based decision making. 

The toolkit is available in two editions: 
- **HEAT**, Built-in Database Edition, which contains the WHO Health Equity 
Monitor database;
- **HEAT Plus**, Upload Database Edition, which allows users to upload and work 
with their own datasets.

Both HEAT and HEAT Plus are available as online versions and downloadable 
desktop versions. For further information about HEAT and HEAT Plus, please refer 
to the WHO website: https://www.who.int/gho/health_equity/assessment_toolkit


#### SOURCE CODE
The source code is available in 4 repositories: 
- [HEAT](https://github.com/WHOequity/HEAT)
- [HEAT-Plus](https://github.com/WHOequity/HEAT-Plus)
- [HEAT-Measures](https://github.com/WHOequity/HEAT-Measures)
- [HEAT-Data](https://github.com/WHOequity/HEAT-Data)


### 2. COPYRIGHT
<hr>

© Copyright World Health Organization, 2016-2021. 


### 3. SUGGESTED CITATION
<hr>

Health Equity Assessment Toolkit (HEAT and HEAT Plus): Software for exploring and comparing health inequalities in countries. Geneva, World Health 
Organization, 2021. 


### 4. DISCLAIMER 
<hr>

Your use of these materials is subject to the Terms of Use and Software Licence
agreement – see below – and by using these materials you affirm that you have 
read, and will comply with, the terms of those documents.


### 5. TERMS OF USE AND SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT
<hr>

Please read these Terms of Use and Software License Agreement (the “Agreement”) 
carefully before installing the Health Equity Assessment Toolkit (the 
“Toolkit”).

By installing and/or using the Toolkit, you (the “Licensee”) enter into an 
agreement with the World Health Organization (“WHO”) and you accept all terms, 
conditions, and requirements of the Agreement.

1. Components and Types of the Toolkit

1.1. The Toolkit contains software developed by WHO (the “Software”). WHO has,
or will, make two editions of the Toolkit available:

  (i) HEAT, the built-in database edition, which includes WHO data, originating 
from the WHO Health Equity Monitor database, for use with the Software 
(the “Data”), and which does not allow you to upload your own data into the 
Software; and 

  (ii) HEAT Plus, the upload database edition which enables you to upload your 
own data into the toolkit, does not include the Data, and does not include any 
reference to WHO, by name, logo, or otherwise.

This Agreement governs your use of whichever edition(s) of the Toolkit you have 
downloaded and/or used through an online platform, including both the Software 
and, if applicable, the Data. References to the “Toolkit” in the remainder of 
this Agreement apply to the built-in and/or upload database editions, as 
applicable in your particular case, including, as applicable the Software and 
the Data.

1.2 Both HEAT and HEAT Plus are available in two formats: an online version, and 
a downloadable desktop version. The applicability of certain aspects of the 
Terms of Use will depend on whether you are using HEAT and/or HEAT Plus, and 
whether that is through the online or desktop version(s).

2. Third-party Software

2.1. Third-party software needed to use the Toolkit. In order to run the stand-
alone packages, you will need the “R” statistical software and a web browser. In 
the stand-alone package of the Toolkit, WHO has provided a portable version of 
“R”, and the portable edition of the web browsers Google Chrome or Chromium. 
These do not require any installation. Furthermore, to use the online version of 
HEAT Plus, you are required to establish an account with Microsoft, and login 
with that account, and thereby accept the Microsoft Terms of Use.

2.2. WHO disclaimers for third-party software. WHO makes no warranties 
whatsoever, and specifically disclaims any and all warranties, express or 
implied, that “R”, Chrome, Chromium, Microsoft services, or any other 
third-party software necessary to use the Toolkit are free of defects, virus 
free, able to operate on an uninterrupted basis, merchantable, fit for a 
particular purpose, accurate, non-infringing or appropriate for your technical 
system.

2.3. Third-party software user license(s) and use. To the extent you are 
required to enter into a user license in order to use “R”, Chrome, Chromium, 
Microsoft services, or any other third-party software, WHO is not a party to any 
such license, and WHO therefore disclaims all liability, responsibility, and/or 
involvement with any such license. WHO shall not be held liable or responsible 
for either any breach of any of the terms and conditions of any third-party 
software license, or any damages arising from your use of any third-party 
software.

2.4. No WHO endorsement of third-party software. The use of any third-party 
software (“R”, Chrome, Chromium, Microsoft services, or otherwise) does not 
imply that they are endorsed or recommended by WHO in preference to others of a 
similar nature.

3. License and Terms of Use for the Software

3.1. Copyright and license. The Software is copyright (©) World Health 
Organization, 2016–2021, and is distributed under the terms of version 3 of the 
GNU Affero General Public License (AGPL v3). As stated in the source code for 
the Software, the Software incorporates or makes reference to other open source 
software, issued under multiple license types, and WHO issues the Software under 
the licenses listed above in part to comply with the those terms. As provided in 
the text of the AGPL v3, components of the Software which are licensed under GPL 
v3 remain governed by that license.

4. Copyright and Terms of Use for the Data 

4.1. Copyright of Data. The Data in HEAT originates from the WHO Health Equity 
Monitor database, and is © WHO. For the avoidance of any doubt, WHO hereby 
asserts its copyright in the Data, and reserves all rights in the Data.

4.2. Data not part of Software or Published under GPL. Unlike the Software, WHO 
is not publishing the Data in HEAT under the AGPL v3. The Data is not based on 
“R”, is an independent and separate work from the Software, and is not 
distributed as “part of a whole” with the Software, as those terms and concepts 
are used in the terminology of the GNU General Public Licenses.

5. Retained Rights and Limitations on Use

5.1. Retained Rights. Except as otherwise indicated herein, WHO owns and shall 
retain all right, title and interest in and to the Toolkit, including all 
intellectual property rights embodied therein, including (i) all of the service 
marks, trademarks, trade names or any other designations associated with the 
Toolkit; and (ii) all copyrights, patent rights, trade secret rights, and other 
proprietary rights relating to the Toolkit. Nothing contained in this License 
shall be deemed to convey to the Licensee any title or ownership in the Toolkit 
or the related documentation. 

5.2. Technical limitations of Use. You shall not remove any WHO identification 
or notices of any proprietary, patent or copyright restrictions from the 
Toolkit, or any support material such as the related documentation.

5.3. Limitations on use of Data. In no event shall you use the Data: 

  (i) In any manner which infringes the rights of any person or entity, 
including the rights of WHO or any attributed owner(s) of the Data; 

  (ii) In, or in association with, any product marketing, promotional, or 
commercial activities, including, without limitation, in, or in association 
with, advertisements, product brochures, company-sponsored web sites, annual 
reports, or other non-educational publications or distributions; 

  (iii) In, or in connection with, the promotion of a commercial enterprise 
and/or its product(s) or service(s), and/or in any way that suggests that WHO 
endorses any specific company or products;

  (iv) In any political activities;

  (v) In any way which is contrary to the policies and principles of WHO and/or 
which might otherwise jeopardize the name or reputation of WHO, its special 
programmes, and/or its research projects or the attributed owner(s) of the Data; 

  (vi) In any manner which is, or could be considered to be, illegal; or 

  (vii) In any manner which is in violation of this Agreement.

6. Acknowledgment and Use of WHO Name and Emblem

6.1. HEAT Plus (upload database edition). For HEAT Plus, as WHO does not provide 
any content for that edition, you shall not state or imply that results from 
HEAT Plus are WHO’s products, opinion, or statements. Further, you shall not (i) 
in connection with your use of HEAT Plus, state or imply that WHO endorses or is 
affiliated with you or your use of HEAT Plus, the Software, or the Data, or that 
WHO endorses any entity, organization, company, or product, or (ii) use the name 
or emblem of WHO in any way. All requests to use the WHO name and/or emblem 
require advance written approval of WHO.

6.2. HEAT (built-in database edition). For HEAT, any mention of the Toolkit, use 
of outputs from the Toolkit, and/or use of the Data, in publications (including 
reports, briefings, and journal articles) must include the following citation of 
the source: 

Health Equity Assessment Toolkit (HEAT): Software for exploring and comparing 
health inequalities in countries. Built-in database edition. Version 4.0. 
Geneva, World Health Organization, 2021.

Other than as provided above, you shall not (i) in connection with your use of 
HEAT, state or imply that WHO endorses or is affiliated with you or your use of 
HEAT, the Software, or the Data, or that WHO endorses any entity, organization, 
company, or product, or (ii) use the name or emblem of WHO in any way. All 
requests to use the WHO name and/or emblem require advance written approval of 
WHO.

7. Disclaimers by WHO 

7.1. No WHO warranties.  WHO makes no warranty with respect to the Toolkit, and 
disclaims all statutory or implied warranties, expressed or implied, as to the 
accuracy, completeness or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or 
process related to the Toolkit, including, without limitation, to any warranty 
of design or fitness for a particular purpose, even if WHO has been informed of 
such purpose. WHO does not represent that the use of the Toolkit would not 
infringe third parties' proprietary rights.  WHO provides the toolkit “as is”, 
and does not represent that the Toolkit is operational, free of defects, virus 
free, able to operate on an uninterrupted basis, or appropriate for your 
technical system. 

7.2. Country or area designations. The designations employed and the 
presentation of the material in the Observatory do not imply the expression of 
any opinion whatsoever on the part of WHO concerning the legal status of any 
country, territory, city or area, or of its authorities, or concerning the 
delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.

7.3. Mentions of companies or products. Any mention of specific companies or of 
certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or 
recommended by the World Health Organization in preference to others of a 
similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the names 
of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters.

8. Your Data and HEAT Plus 

8.1 By using HEAT Plus, you confirm that all data that you upload to, or use in, 
HEAT Plus is either owned by you or, if not, you have obtained all necessary and 
relevant permissions to use the data in HEAT Plus, and that WHO has no 
responsibility or control over the data you use in that regard. You understand 
that WHO will maintain your data on WHO’s data server specific to HEAT Plus, and 
WHO will not, without your permission, otherwise use that data than to enable 
you to use HEAT Plus. You confirm that you will not upload any data to HEAT Plus 
or WHO’s servers which is personal information or data or would in any way be in 
violation of law, including privacy and intellectual property law. 

9. Limitation of WHO’s Liability

9.1. WHO shall not be liable for any loss or damage arising directly or 
indirectly in connection with, or resulting from, your use of the Toolkit.

9.2. WHO further expressly excludes liability for any indirect, special, 
incidental or consequential damages which may arise in respect of the Toolkit 
and its use, and the results thereof, including, without limitation, any use of 
the Data. 

10. Your Indemnification of WHO

10.1. You shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend at your own expense WHO, 
its officers, agents, and employees from and against any claims, demands, causes 
of action, and liability of any nature or kind resulting from or relating to 
your use of the Toolkit, including, without limitation, as applicable, your 
transfer and uploading of data to WHO’s servers or otherwise.

11. Term and Termination of this Agreement

11.1. This Agreement shall remain in effect so long as you hold any copy of the 
Toolkit on any of your computer systems or storage media. This Agreement, 
including the rights granted under it, shall terminate automatically upon any 
breach by you of any of its terms. Further, WHO may terminate this Agreement, 
including the rights granted under it, at any time, with immediate effect, for 
any reason, by written notice to you. This Agreement is the entire agreement 
between you and WHO with respect to its subject matter. This Agreement may only 
be amended by mutual written agreement of you and WHO. 

11.2. Upon termination of this License for any reason whatsoever, you shall 
immediately cease all use of the Toolkit and destroy and/or remove all copies of 
the Toolkit from your computer systems and storage media.

12. General Provisions 

12.1. You may not assign this Agreement without the prior written agreement of 
WHO (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld).

12.2. This Agreement may not be supplemented, modified, amended, released or 
discharged, unless approved in writing by WHO. WHO reserves the right to make 
changes and updates to this Agreement without prior notification. Such changes 
and updates shall be applied as of the date of their issuance. Any waiver by WHO 
of any default or breach hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of any 
provision of this Agreement or of any subsequent default or breach of the same 
or a different kind.

12.3. If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, it is to 
that extent to be deemed omitted. The remainder of the Agreement shall be valid 
and enforceable to the maximum extent possible. 

12.4. Paragraph headings in this Agreement are for reference only. 

12.5. Any matter relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement 
which is not covered by its terms shall be resolved by reference to Swiss law. 
Any dispute relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement 
shall, unless amicably settled, be subject to conciliation. In the event of 
failure of the latter, the dispute shall be settled by arbitration. The 
arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the modalities to be agreed 
upon by the parties or, in the absence of agreement, in accordance with the 
UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules. The parties shall accept the arbitral award as 
final.

12.6. Nothing contained herein or in any license or terms of use related to the 
subject matter herein (including, without limitation, the GNU General Public 
Licenses discussed in paragraph 3.1 above) shall be construed as a waiver of any 
of the privileges and immunities enjoyed by the World Health Organization under 
national or international law, and/or as submitting the World Health 
Organization to any national court jurisdiction.
